<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 23</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-23" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h3>
				<p>Leaves were yellowing; the potato-plants had grown to full height and stood in flower; the shooting season came round again; I shot hare and ptarmigan and grouse; one day I shot an eagle. Calm, open sky, cool nights, many clear, clear tones and dear sounds in the woods and fields. The earth was resting, vast and peaceful⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>“I have not heard anything from Herr Mack about the two guillemots I shot,” I said to the Doctor.</p>
				<p>“You can thank Edwarda for that,” he said. “I know. I heard that she set herself against it.”</p>
				<p>“I do not thank her for it,” said I⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>Indian summer⁠—Indian summer. The stars lay like belts in through the yellowing woods; a new star came every day. The moon showed like a shadow; a shadow of gold dipped in silver⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>“Heaven help you, Eva, are you married?”</p>
				<p>“Didn’t you know that?”</p>
				<p>“No, I didn’t know.”</p>
				<p>She pressed my hand silently.</p>
				<p>“God help you, child, what are we to do now?” “What <i>you</i> will. Perhaps you are not going away just yet; I will be happy as long as you are here.”</p>
				<p>“No, Eva.”</p>
				<p>“Yes, yes⁠—only as long as you are here.”</p>
				<p>She looked forsaken, kept pressing my hand.</p>
				<p>“No, Eva. Go⁠—never any more!”</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>Nights pass and days come⁠—three days already since this last talk. Eva comes by with a load. How much wood has that child carried home from the forest this summer alone?</p>
				<p>“Set the load down, Eva, and let me see if your eyes are as blue as ever.”</p>
				<p>Her eyes were red.</p>
				<p>“No⁠—smile again, Eva! I can resist no more; I am your, I am yours⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>Evening. Eva sings, I hear her singing, and a warmth goes through me.</p>
				<p>“You are singing this evening, child?”</p>
				<p>“Yes, I am happy.”</p>
				<p>And being smaller than I, she jumps up a little to put her arms round my neck.</p>
				<p>“But, Eva, you have scratched your hands. <i>Herregud</i>! oh, if you had not scratched them so!”</p>
				<p>“It doesn’t matter.”</p>
				<p>Her face beams wonderfully.</p>
				<p>“Eva, have you spoken to Herr Mack?”</p>
				<p>“Yes, once.”</p>
				<p>“What did he say, and what did you?”</p>
				<p>“He is so hard with us now; he makes my husband work day and night down at the quay, and keeps me at all sorts of jobs as well. He has ordered me to do man’s work now.”</p>
				<p>“Why does he do that?”</p>
				<p>Eva looks down.</p>
				<p>“Why does he do that, Eva?”</p>
				<p>“Because I love you.”</p>
				<p>“But how could he know?”</p>
				<p>“I told him.”</p>
				<p>Pause.</p>
				<p>“Would to Heaven he were not so harsh with you, Eva.”</p>
				<p>“But it doesn’t matter. It doesn’t matter at all now.”</p>
				<p>And her voice is like a little tremulous song in the woods.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>The woods more yellow still. It is drawing towards autumn now; a few more stars have come in the sky, and from now on the moon looks like a shadow of silver dipped in gold. There is no cold; nothing, only a cool stillness and a flow of life in the woods. Every tree stands in silent thought. The berries are ripe.</p>
				<p>Then⁠—the twenty-second of August and the three iron nights. [Footnote: <i>Joernnætter</i>. Used of the nights in August when the first frosts appear.]</p>
			</section>
		</section>
</body>
</html>
