<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 11</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-11" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
				<p>In the night I heard Aesop get up from his corner and growl; I heard it through my sleep, but I was dreaming just then of shooting, the growl of the dog fitted into the dream, and it did not wake me, quite. When I stepped out of the hut next morning there were tracks in the grass of a pair of human feet; someone had been there⁠—had gone first to one of my windows, then to the other. The tracks were lost again down on the road.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>She came towards me with hot cheeks, with a face all beaming.</p>
				<p>“Have you been waiting?” she said. “I was afraid you would have to wait.”</p>
				<p>I had not been waiting; she was on the way before me.</p>
				<p>“Have you slept well?” I asked. I hardly knew what to say.</p>
				<p>“No, I haven’t. I have been awake,” she answered. And she told me she had not slept that night, but had sat in a chair with her eyes closed. And she had been out of the house for a little walk.</p>
				<p>“Someone was outside my hut last night,” I said. “I saw tracks in the grass this morning.”</p>
				<p>And her face colored; she took my hand there, on the road, and made no answer. I looked at her, and said:</p>
				<p>“Was it you, I wonder?”</p>
				<p>“Yes,” she answered, pressing close to me. “It was I. I hope I didn’t wake you⁠—I stepped as quietly as I could. Yes, it was I. I was near you again. I am fond of you!”</p>
			</section>
		</section>
</body>
</html>
