<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 32</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-32" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h3>
				<p>A man said:</p>
				<p>“You never go out shooting now? Aesop is running loose in the woods; he is after a hare.”</p>
				<p>I said:</p>
				<p>“Go and shoot it for me.”</p>
				<p>Some days passed. Herr Mack looked me up. He was hollow-eyed; his face was grey. I thought: Is it true that I can see through my fellows, or is it not? I do not know, myself.</p>
				<p>Herr Mack spoke of the landslip, the catastrophe. It was a misfortune, a sad accident; I was in no way to blame.</p>
				<p>I said:</p>
				<p>“If it was someone who wished to separate Eva and me at any price, he has gained his end. God’s curse be on him!”</p>
				<p>Herr Mack looked at me suspiciously. He murmured something about the fine funeral. Nothing had been spared.</p>
				<p>I sat admiring the alertness of his mind. He would have no compensation for the boat that my landslide had crushed.</p>
				<p>“Oh, but surely,” I said, “will you not have some payment for the boat and the tar-bucket and the brush?”</p>
				<p>“No, my dear Lieutenant,” he answered. “How could you think of such a thing?” And he looked at me with hatred in his eyes.</p>
				<p>For three weeks I saw nothing of Edwarda. Yes, once I met her at the store: when I went to buy some bread, she stood inside the counter looking over some different sorts of cloth stuff. Only the two assistants were there besides.</p>
				<p>I greeted her aloud, and she looked up, but did not answer. It occurred to me that I could not ask for bread while she was there; I turned to the assistants and asked for powder and shot. While they were weighing it out, I watched her.</p>
				<p>A grey dress, much too small for her, with the buttonholes worn; her flat breast heaved restlessly. How she had grown that summer! Her brow was knit in thought; those strangely curved eyebrows stood in her face like two riddles; all her movements were grown more mature. I looked at her hands; the contour of her long, delicate fingers moved me violently, made me tremble. She was still turning over the stuffs.</p>
				<p>I stood wishing that Aesop would run to her behind the counter⁠—then I could call him back at once and apologise. What would she say then?</p>
				<p>“Here you are,” said the storekeeper.</p>
				<p>I paid for the things, took up my parcels, and took my leave of her. She looked up, but again without speaking. Good, I thought to myself. She is the Baron’s bride already, as like as not. And I went, without my bread.</p>
				<p>When I got outside, I looked up at the window. No one was watching me.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
</body>
</html>
