<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 14</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-14" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h3>
				<p>A man can be drunk with joy. I fire off my gun, and an unforgettable echo answers from hill to hill, floats out over the sea and rings in some sleepy helmsman’s ears. And what have I to be joyful about? A thought that came to me, a memory; a sound in the woods, a human being. I think of her, I close my eyes and stand still there on the road, and think of her; I count the minutes.</p>
				<p>Now I am thirsty, and drink from the stream; now I walk a hundred paces forward and a hundred paces back; it must be late by now, I say to myself.</p>
				<p>Can there be anything wrong? A month has passed, and a month is no long time; there is nothing wrong. Heaven knows this month has been short. But the nights are often long, and I am driven to wet my cap in the stream and let it dry, only to pass the time, while I am waiting.</p>
				<p>I reckoned my time by nights. Sometimes there would be an evening when Edwarda did not come⁠—once she stayed away two evenings. Nothing wrong, no. But I felt then that perhaps my happiness had reached and passed its height.</p>
				<p>And had it not?</p>
				<p>“Can you hear, Edwarda, how restless it is in the woods to-night? Rustling incessantly in the undergrowth, and the big leaves trembling. Something brewing, maybe⁠—but it was not that I had in mind to say. I hear a bird away up on the hill⁠—only a tomtit, but it has sat there calling in the same place two nights now. Can you hear⁠—the same, same note again?”</p>
				<p>“Yes, I hear it. Why do you ask me that?”</p>
				<p>“Oh, for no reason at all. It has been there two nights now. That was all⁠ ⁠… Thanks, thanks for coming this evening, love. I sat here, expecting you this evening, or the next, looking forward to it, when you came.”</p>
				<p>“And I have been waiting too. I think of you, and I have picked up the pieces of the glass you upset once, and kept them⁠—do you remember? Father went away last night. I could not come, there was so much to do with the packing, and reminding him of things. I knew you were waiting here in the woods, and I cried, and went on packing.”</p>
				<p>But it is two evenings, I thought to myself. What was she doing the first evening? And why is there less joy in her eyes now than before?</p>
				<p>An hour passed. The bird up in the hills was silent, the woods lay dead. No, no, nothing wrong; all as before; she gave me her hand to say good-night, and looked at me with love in her eyes.</p>
				<p>“To-morrow?” I said.</p>
				<p>“No, not to-morrow,” she answered.</p>
				<p>I did not ask her why.</p>
				<p>“To-morrow is our party,” she said with a laugh. “I was only going to surprise you, but you looked so miserable, I had to tell you at once. I was going to send you an invitation all on paper.”</p>
				<p>And my heart was lightened unspeakably.</p>
				<p>She went off, nodding farewell.</p>
				<p>“One thing more,” said I, standing where I was. “How long is it since you gathered up the pieces of that glass and put them away?”</p>
				<p>“Why⁠—a week ago, perhaps, or a fortnight. Yes, perhaps a fortnight. But why do you ask? Well, I will tell you the truth⁠—it was yesterday.”</p>
				<p>Yesterday! No longer ago than yesterday she had thought of me. All was well again now.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
</body>
</html>
