<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 31</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-31" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</h3>
				<p>What more have I to write? I fired no shot for many days; I had no food, and did not eat at all; I sat in my shed. Eva was carried to the church in Herr Mack’s white-painted house-boat. I went there overland on foot⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>Eva is dead. Do you remember her little girlish head, with hair like a nun’s? She came so quietly, laid down her head and smiled. And did you see how full of life that smile was? Be still, Aesop; I remember a strange saga story, of four generations ago, of Iselin’s time, when Stamer was a priest.</p>
				<p>A girl sat captive in a stone tower. She loved a lord. Why? Ask the winds and the stars, ask the God of life, for there is none that knows such things. The lord was her friend and lover; but time went on, and one fine day he saw another and his liking changed.</p>
				<p>Like a youth he loved his maid. Often he called her his blessing and his dove, and said: “Give me your heart!” And she did so. He said: “May I ask for something, love?” And, wild with joy, she answered “Yes.” And she gave him all, and yet he did not thank her.</p>
				<p>The other he loved as a slave, as a madman and a beggar. Why? Ask the dust of the road and the leaves that fall, ask the mysterious God of life, for there is no other that knows such things. She gave him nothing⁠—no, nothing did she give him⁠—and yet he thanked her. She said, “Give me your peace and your understanding!” and he was only sorry that she did not ask his life.</p>
				<p>And his maid was set in the tower⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>“What do you there, maiden, sitting and smiling?”</p>
				<p>“I think of something ten years back. It was then I met him.”</p>
				<p>“You remember him still?”</p>
				<p>“I remember him still.”</p>
				<p>And time goes on.</p>
				<p>“What do you there, maiden? And why do you sit and smile?”</p>
				<p>“I am embroidering his name on a cloth.”</p>
				<p>“Whose name? His who shut you up here?”</p>
				<p>“Yes, the one I met twenty years ago.”</p>
				<p>“You remember him still?”</p>
				<p>“I remember him as I did before.”</p>
				<p>And time goes on⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>“What do you there, prisoner?”</p>
				<p>“I grow old, and can no longer see to sew; I scrape the plaster from the walls. And of that I am making an urn to be a little gift for him.”</p>
				<p>“Of whom are you speaking?”</p>
				<p>“Of my lover, who shut me in the tower.”</p>
				<p>“And do you smile at that, because he locked you in the tower?”</p>
				<p>“I am thinking of what he will say now. ‘Look, look,’ he will say, ‘my maiden has sent me a little urn; she has not forgotten me in thirty years.’ ”</p>
				<p>And time goes on⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>“What, prisoner! sit you there idle, and smile?”</p>
				<p>“I grow old, I grow old, my eyes are blind, I am only thinking.”</p>
				<p>“Of him that you met forty years ago?”</p>
				<p>“Of him whom I met when I was young. Maybe it was forty years ago.”</p>
				<p>“But do you not know, then, that he is dead?⁠ ⁠… Pale beldam, you do not answer; your lips are white, you breathe no more⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>There! That was the strange tale of the girl in the tower. Wait, Aesop, wait a little: there was something I forgot. One day she heard her lover’s voice in the courtyard, and she fell on her knees and blushed. And that was when she was forty years⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>I bury you, Eva, and in humility kiss the sand above your grave. A luxuriant, rose-red memory flowers in me when I think of you; I am as if drenched in blessing at the memory of your smile. You gave all; all did you give, and it cost you nothing, for you were the wild child of life itself. But others, the miserly ones who begrudge even a glance, can have all my thoughts. Why? Ask the twelve months and the ships on the sea; ask the mysterious God of the heart⁠ ⁠…</p>
			</section>
		</section>
</body>
</html>
