<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 29</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-29" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h3>
				<p>The fire was Herr Mack’s doing. I saw through it from the first. I lost my skins and my birds’ wings, I lost my stuffed eagle; everything was destroyed. What now? I lay out for two nights under the open sky, without going to Sirilund to ask for shelter. At last I rented a deserted fisher-hut by the quay. I stopped the cracks with dried moss, and slept on a load of red horseberry ling from the hills. Once more my needs were filled.</p>
				<p>Edwarda sent me a message to say she had heard of my misfortune and that she offered me, on her father’s behalf, a room at Sirilund. Edwarda touched! Edwarda generous! I sent no answer. Thank Heaven, I was no longer without shelter, and it gave me a proud joy to make no answer to Edwarda’s offer. I met her on the road, with the Baron; they were walking arm in arm. I looked them both in the face and bowed as I passed. She stopped, and asked:</p>
				<p>“So you will not come and stay with us, Lieutenant?”</p>
				<p>“I am already settled in my new place,” I said, and stopped also.</p>
				<p>She looked at me; her bosom was heaving. “You would have lost nothing by coming to us,” she said.</p>
				<p>Thankfulness moved in my heart, but I could not speak.</p>
				<p>The Baron walked on slowly.</p>
				<p>“Perhaps you do not want to see me any more,” she said.</p>
				<p>“I thank you, Edwarda, for offering me shelter when my house was burned,” I said. “It was the kinder of you, since your father was hardly willing.” And with bared head I thanked her for her offer.</p>
				<p>“In God’s name, will you not see me again, Glahn?” she said suddenly.</p>
				<p>The Baron was calling.</p>
				<p>“The Baron is calling,” I said, and took off my hat again respectfully.</p>
				<p>And I went up into the hills, to my mining. Nothing, nothing should make me lose my self-possession any more. I met Eva. “There, what did I say?” I cried. “Herr Mack cannot drive me away. He has burned my hut, and I already have another hut⁠ ⁠…” She was carrying a tar-bucket and brush. “What now, Eva?”</p>
				<p>Herr Mack had a boat in a shed under the cliff, and had ordered her to tar it. He watched her every step⁠—she had to obey.</p>
				<p>“But why in the shed there? Why not at the quay?”</p>
				<p>“Herr Mack ordered it so..</p>
				<p>“Eva, Eva, my love, they make a slave of you and you do not complain. See! now you are smiling again, and life streams through your smile, for all that you are a slave.”</p>
				<p>When I got up to my mining work, I found a surprise. I could see that someone had been on the spot. I examined the tracks and recognised the print of Herr Mack’s long, pointed shoes. What could he be ferreting about here for? I thought to myself, and looked round. No one to be seen⁠—I had no suspicion.</p>
				<p>And I fell to hammering with my drill, never dreaming what harm I did.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
</body>
</html>
