<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 35</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-35" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXV</h3>
				<p>The mail-packet was to sail in the afternoon.</p>
				<p>I went down to the quay. My things were already on board. Herr Mack pressed my hand, and said encouragingly that it would be nice weather, pleasant weather; he would not mind making the trip himself in such weather. The Doctor came walking down. Edwarda was with him; I felt my knees beginning to tremble.</p>
				<p>“Came to see you safely off,” said the Doctor.</p>
				<p>I thanked him.</p>
				<p>Edwarda looked me straight in the face and said:</p>
				<p>“I must thank you for your dog.” She pressed her lips together; they were quite white. Again she had called me “<i>Eder</i>.” [Footnote: The most formal mode of address.]</p>
				<p>“When does the boat go?” the Doctor asked a man.</p>
				<p>“In half an hour.”</p>
				<p>I said nothing.</p>
				<p>Edwarda was turning restlessly this way and that.</p>
				<p>“Doctor, don’t you think we may as well go home again?” she said. “I have done what I came for to do.”</p>
				<p>“You have done what you came <i>to do</i>,” said the Doctor.</p>
				<p>She laughed, humiliated by his everlasting correction, and answered:</p>
				<p>“Wasn’t that almost what I said?”</p>
				<p>“No,” he answered shortly.</p>
				<p>I looked at him. The little man stood there cold and firm; he had made a plan, and he carried it out to the last. And if he lost after all? In any case, he would never show it; his face never betrayed him.</p>
				<p>It was getting dusk.</p>
				<p>“Well, good-bye,” I said. “And thanks for⁠—everything.”</p>
				<p>Edwarda looked at me dumbly. Then she turned her head and stood looking out at the ship.</p>
				<p>I got into the boat. Edwarda was still standing on the quay. When I got on board, the Doctor called out “Good-bye!” I looked over to the shore. Edwarda turned at the same time and walked hurriedly away from the quay, the Doctor far behind. That was the last I saw of her.</p>
				<p>A wave of sadness went through my heart⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>The vessel began to move; I could still see Herr Mack’s sign: “Salt and Barrels.” But soon it disappeared. The moon and the stars came out; the hills towered round about, and I saw the endless woods. There is the mill; there, there stood my hut, that was burned; the big grey stone stands there all alone on the site of the fire. Iselin, Eva⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>The night of the northern lights spreads over valley and hill.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
</body>
</html>
