<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 27</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-27" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h3>
				<p>The Baron is going away. Well and good: I will load my gun, go up into the hills, and fire a salvo in his honour and Edwarda’s. I will bore a deep hole in a rock and blow up a mountain in his honour and Edwarda’s. And a great boulder shall roll down the hillside and dash mightily into the sea just as his ship is passing by. I know a spot⁠—a channel down the hillside⁠—where rocks have rolled before and made a clean road to the sea. Far below there is a little boat-house.</p>
				<p>“Two mining drills,” I say to the smith.</p>
				<p>And the smith whets two drills⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>Eva has been put to driving back and forth between the mill and the quay, with one of Herr Mack’s horses. She has to do a man’s work, transporting sacks of corn and flour. I meet her; her face is wonderfully fresh and glowing. Dear God, how tender and warm is her smile! Every evening I meet her.</p>
				<p>“You look as if you had no troubles, Eva, my love.”</p>
				<p>“You call me your love! I am an ignorant woman, but I will be true to you. I will be true to you if I should die for it. Herr Mack grows harsher and harsher every day, but I do not mind it; he is furious, but I do not answer him. He took hold of my arm and went grey with fury. One thing troubles me.”</p>
				<p>“And what is it that troubles you?” “Herr Mack threatens you. He says to me: ‘Aha, it’s that lieutenant you’ve got in your head all the time!’ I answer: ‘Yes, I am his.’ Then he says: ‘Ah, you wait. I’ll soon get rid of him.’ He said that yesterday.”</p>
				<p>“It doesn’t matter; let him threaten⁠ ⁠…” And with closed eyes she throws her arms about my neck. A quiver passes through her. The horse stands waiting.</p>
			</section>	
		</section>
</body>
</html>
