<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 12</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-12" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h3>
				<p>Every day, every day I met her. I will tell the truth: I was glad to meet her; aye, my heart flew. It is two years ago this year; now, I think of it only when I please, the whole story just amuses and distracts me. And as for the two green feathers, I will tell about them in good time.</p>
				<p>There were several places where we could meet⁠—at the mill, on the road, even in my hut. She came wherever I would. <i>“Goddag!”</i> she cried, always first, and I answered <i>“Goddag!”</i></p>
				<p>“You are happy to-day,” she says, and her eyes sparkle.</p>
				<p>“Yes, I am happy,” I answer. “There is a speck there on your shoulder; it is dust, perhaps, a speck of mud from the road; I must kiss that little spot. No⁠—let me⁠—I will. Everything about you stirs me so! I am half out of my senses. I did not sleep last night.”</p>
				<p>And that was true. Many a night I lay and could not sleep.</p>
				<p>We walk side by side along the road.</p>
				<p>“What do you think⁠—am I as you like me to be?” she asks. “Perhaps I talk too much. No? Oh, but you must say what you really think. Sometimes I think to myself this can never come to any good⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>“What can never come to any good?” I ask.</p>
				<p>“This between us. That it cannot come to any good. You may believe it or not, but I am shivering now with cold; I feel icy cold the moment I come to you. Just out of happiness.”</p>
				<p>“It is the same with me,” I answer. “I feel a shiver, too, when I see you. But it will come to some good all the same. And, anyhow, let me pat you on the back, to warm you.”</p>
				<p>And she lets me, half unwillingly, and then I hit a little harder, for a jest, and laugh, and ask if that doesn’t make her feel better.</p>
				<p>“Oh, please, don’t when I ask you; <i>please</i>,” says she.</p>
				<p>Those few words! There was something so helpless about her saying it so, the wrong way round: “Please don’t when I ask you.”⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>Then we went on along the road again. Was she displeased with me for my jest, I wondered? And thought to myself: Well, let us see. And I said:</p>
				<p>“I just happened to think of something. Once when I was out on a sledge party, there was a young lady who took a silk kerchief from her neck and fastened it round mine. In the evening, I said to her: ‘You shall have your kerchief again to-morrow; I will have it washed.’ ‘No,’ she said, ‘give it to me now; I will keep it just as it is, after you have worn it.’ And I gave it to her. Three years after, I met the same young lady again. ‘The kerchief,’ I said. And she brought it out. It lay in a paper, just as before; I saw it myself.”</p>
				<p>Edwarda glanced up at me.</p>
				<p>“Yes? And what then?”</p>
				<p>“That is all,” I said. “There was nothing more. But I thought it was nice of her.”</p>
				<p>Pause.</p>
				<p>“Where is that lady now?”</p>
				<p>“Abroad.”</p>
				<p>We spoke no more of that. But when it was time for her to go home, she said:</p>
				<p>“Well, good-night. But you won’t go thinking of that lady any more, will you? I don’t think of anyone but you.”</p>
				<p>I believed her. I saw that she meant what she said, and it was more than enough for me that she thought of no one else. I walked after her.</p>
				<p>“Thank you, Edwarda,” I said. And then I added with all my heart: “You are all too good for me, but I am thankful that you will have me; God will reward you for that. I’m not so fine as many you could have, no doubt, but I am all yours⁠—so endlessly yours, by my eternal soul.⁠—⁠What are you thinking of now, to bring tears to your eyes?”</p>
				<p>“It was nothing,” she answered. “It sounded so strange⁠—that God would reward me for that. You say things that I⁠ ⁠… Oh, I love you so!”</p>
				<p>And all at once she threw her arms round my neck, there in the middle of the road, and kissed me.</p>
				<p>When she had gone, I stepped aside into the woods to hide, to be alone with my happiness. And then I hurried eagerly back to the road to see if anyone had noticed that I had gone in there. But I saw no one.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
</body>
</html>
