<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 25</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-25" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h3>
				<p>It was autumn. The summer was gone. It passed as quickly as it had come; ah, how quickly it was gone! The days were cold now. I went out shooting and fishing⁠—sang songs in the woods. And there were days with a thick mist that came floating in from the sea, damming up everything behind a wall of murk.</p>
				<p>One such day something happened. I lost my way, blundered through into the woods of the annexe, and came to the Doctor’s house. There were visitors there⁠—the young ladies I had met before⁠—young people dancing, just like madcap foals.</p>
				<p>A carriage came rolling up and stopped outside the gate; Edwarda was in it. She started at sight of me. “Good-bye,” I said quietly. But the Doctor held me back. Edwarda was troubled by my presence at first, and looked down when I spoke; afterwards, she bore with me, and even went so far as to ask me a question about something or other. She was strikingly pale; the mist lay grey and cold upon her face. She did not get out of the carriage.</p>
				<p>“I have come on an errand,” she said. “I come from the parish church, and none of you were there to-day; they said you were here. I have been driving for hours to find you. We are having a little party to-morrow⁠—the Baron is going away next week⁠—and I have been told to invite you all. There will be dancing too. To-morrow evening.”</p>
				<p>They all bowed and thanked her.</p>
				<p>To me, she went on:</p>
				<p>“Now, don’t stay away, will you? Don’t send a note at the last minute making some excuse.” She did not say that to any of the others. A little after she drove away.</p>
				<p>I was so moved by this unexpected meeting that for a little while I was secretly mad with joy. Then I took leave of the Doctor and his guests and set off for home. How gracious she was to me, how gracious she was to me! What could I do for her in return? My hands felt helpless; a sweet cold went through my wrists. <i>Herregud!</i> I thought to myself, here am I with my limbs hanging helpless for joy; I cannot even clench my hands; I can only find tears in my eyes for my own helplessness. What is to be done about it?</p>
				<p>It was late in the evening when I reached home. I went round by the quay and asked a fisherman if the post-packet would not be in by to-morrow evening. Alas, no, the post-packet would not be in till some time next week. I hurried up to the hut and began looking over my best suit. I cleaned it up and made it look decent; there were holes in it here and there, and I wept and darned them.</p>
				<p>When I had finished, I lay down on the bed. This rest lasted only a moment. Then a thought struck me, and I sprang up and stood in the middle of the floor, dazed. The whole thing was just another trick! I should not have been invited if I had not happened to be there when the others were asked. And, moreover, she had given me the plainest possible hint to stay away⁠—to send a note at the last moment, making some excuse⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>I did not sleep all that night, and when morning came I went to the woods cold, sleepless, and feverish. Ho, having a party at Sirilund! What then? I would neither go nor send any excuse. Herr Mack was a very thoughtful man; he was giving this party for the Baron; but I was not going⁠—let them understand that!⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>The mist lay thick over valley and hills; a clammy rime gathered on my clothes and made them heavy, my face was cold and wet. Only now and then came a breath of wind to make the sleeping mists rise and fall, rise and fall.</p>
				<p>It was late in the afternoon, and getting dark; the mist hid everything from my eyes, and I had no sun to show the way. I drifted about for hours on the way home, but there was no hurry. I took the wrong road with the greatest calmness, and came upon unknown places in the woods. At last I stood my gun against a tree and consulted my compass. I marked out my way carefully and started off. It would be about eight or nine o’clock.</p>
				<p>Then something happened.</p>
				<p>After half an hour, I heard music through the fog, and a few minutes later I knew where I was: quite close to the main building at Sirilund. Had my compass misled me to the very place I was trying to avoid? A well-known voice called me⁠—the Doctor’s. A minute later I was being led in.</p>
				<p>My gun-barrel had perhaps affected the compass and, alas, set it wrong. The same thing has happened to me since⁠—one day this year. I do not know what to think. Then, too, it may have been fate.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
</body>
</html>
