<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 9</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-9" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
				<p>I had some talk with Edwarda.</p>
				<p>“We shall have rain before long,” I said.</p>
				<p>“What time is it?” she asked.</p>
				<p>I looked at the sun and answered:</p>
				<p>“About five.”</p>
				<p>She asked:</p>
				<p>“Can you tell so nearly by the sun?”</p>
				<p>“Yes,” I answered; “I can.”</p>
				<p>Pause.</p>
				<p>“But when you can’t see the sun, how do you tell the time then?”</p>
				<p>“Then I can tell by other things. There’s high tide and low tide, and the grass that lies over at certain hours, and the song of the birds that changes; some birds begin to sing when others leave off. Then, I can tell the time by flowers that close in the afternoon, and leaves that are bright green at some times and dull green at others⁠—and then, besides, I can feel it.”</p>
				<p>“I see.”</p>
				<p>Now I was expecting rain, and for Edwarda’s sake I would not keep her there any longer on the road; I raised my cap. But she stopped me suddenly with a new question, and I stayed. She blushed, and asked me why I had come to the place at all? Why I went out shooting, and why this and why that? For I never shot more than I needed for food, and left my dog idle⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>She looked flushed and humble. I understood that someone had been talking about me, and she had heard it; she was not speaking for herself. And something about her called up a feeling of tenderness in me; she looked so helpless, I remembered that she had no mother; her thin arms gave her an ill-cared-for appearance. I could not help feeling it so.</p>
				<p>Well, I did not go out shooting just to murder things, but to live. I had need of one grouse to-day, and so I did not shoot two, but would shoot the other to-morrow. Why kill more? I lived in the woods, as a son of the woods. And from the first of June it was closed time for hare and ptarmigan; there was but little left for me to shoot at all now. Well and good: then I could go fishing, and live on fish. I would borrow her father’s boat and row out in that. No, indeed, I did no go out shooting for the lust of killing things, but only to live in the woods. It was a good place for me; I could lie down on the ground at meals, instead of sitting upright on a chair; I did not upset my glass there. In the woods I could do as I pleased; I could lie down flat on my back and close my eyes if I pleased, and I could say whatever I liked to say. Often one might feel a wish to say something, to speak aloud, and in the woods it sounded like speech from the very heart⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>When I asked her if she understood all this, she said, “Yes.”</p>
				<p>And I went on, and told her more, because her eyes were on me. “If you only knew all that I see out in the wilds!” I said. “In winter, I come walking along, and see, perhaps, the tracks of ptarmigan in the snow. Suddenly the track disappears; the bird has taken wing. But from the marks of the wings I can see which way the game has flown, and before long I have tracked it down again. There is always a touch of newness in that for me. In autumn, many a time there are shooting stars to watch. Then I think to myself, being all alone, What was that? A world seized with convulsions all of a sudden? A world going all to pieces before my eyes? To think that I⁠—that <i>I</i> should be granted the sight of shooting stars in my life! And when summer comes, then perhaps there may be a little living creature on every leaf; I can see that some of them have no wings; they can make no great way in the world, but must live and die on that one little leaf where they came into the world.</p>
				<p>“Then sometimes I see the blue flies. But it all seems such a little thing to talk about⁠—I don’t know if you understand?”</p>
				<p>“Yes, yes, I understand.”</p>
				<p>“Good. Well, then sometimes I look at the grass, and perhaps the grass is looking at me again⁠—who can say? I look at a single blade of grass; it quivers a little, maybe, and thinks me something. And I think to myself: Here is a little blade of grass all a-quivering. Or if it happens to be a fir tree I look at, then maybe the tree has one branch that makes me think of it a little, too. And sometimes I meet people up on the moors; it happens at times.”</p>
				<p>I looked at her; she stood bending forward, listening. I hardly knew her. So lost in attention she was that she took no heed of herself, but was ugly, foolish looking; her underlip hung far down.</p>
				<p>“Yes, yes,” she said, and drew herself up.</p>
				<p>The first drops of rain began to fall.</p>
				<p>“It is raining,” said I.</p>
				<p>“Oh! Yes, it is raining,” she said, and went away on the instant.</p>
				<p>I did not see her home; she went on her way alone; I hurried up to the hut. A few minutes passed. It began to rain heavily. Suddenly I heard someone running after me. I stopped short, and there was Edwarda.</p>
				<p>“I forgot,” she said breathlessly. “We were going over to the islands⁠—the drying grounds, you know. The Doctor is coming to-morrow; will you have time then?”</p>
				<p>“To-morrow? Yes, indeed. I shall have time enough.”</p>
				<p>“I forgot it,” she said again, and smiled.</p>
				<p>As she went, I noticed her thin, pretty calves; they were wet far above the ankle. Her shoes were worn through.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
</body>
</html>
