<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
		<title>Chapter 36</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-1" epub:type="part">
			<section id="chapter-1-36" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVI</h3>
				<p>I have written this to pass the time. It has amused me to look back to that summer in Nordland, when I often counted the hours, but when time flew nevertheless. All is changed. The days will no longer pass.</p>
				<p>I have many a merry hour even yet. But time⁠—it stands still, and I cannot understand how it can stand so still. I am out of the service, and free as a prince; all is well; I meet people, drive in carriages; now and again I shut one eye and write with one finger up in the sky; I tickle the moon under the chin, and fancy that it laughs⁠—laughs broadly at being tickled under the chin. All things smile. I pop a cork and call gay people to me.</p>
				<p>As for Edwarda, I do not think of her. Why should I not have forgotten her altogether, after all this time? I have some pride. And if anyone asks whether I have any sorrows, then I answer straight out, “No⁠—none.”</p>
				<p>Cora lies looking at me. Aesop, it used to be, but now it is Cora that lies looking at me. The clock ticks on the mantel; outside my open window sounds the roar of the city. A knock at the door, and the postman hands me a letter. A letter with a coronet. I know who sent it; I understand it at once, or maybe I dreamed it one sleepless night. But in the envelope there is no letter at all⁠—only two green bird’s feathers.</p>
				<p>An icy horror thrills me; I turn cold. Two green feathers! I say to myself: Well, and what of it? But why should I turn cold? Why, there is a cursed draught from those windows.</p>
				<p>And I shut the windows.</p>
				<p>There lie two bird’s feathers, I think to myself again. I seem to know them; they remind me of a little jest up in Nordland, just a little episode among a host of others. It is amusing to see those two feathers again. And suddenly I seem to see a face and hear a voice, and the voice says: “Her, Herr Lieutenant: here are your feathers.”</p>
				<p>“Your feathers.”⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>Cora, lie still⁠—do you hear? I will kill you if you move!</p>
				<p>The weather is hot, an intolerable heat is in the room; what was I thinking of to close the windows? Open them again⁠—open the door too; open it wide⁠—this way, merry souls, come in! Hey, messenger, an errand⁠—go out and fetch me a host of people⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>And the day passes; but time stands still.</p>
				<p>Now I have written this for my own pleasure only, and amused myself with it as best I could. No sorrow weighs on me, but I long to be away⁠—where, I do not know, but far away, perhaps in Africa or India. For my place is in the woods, in solitude⁠ ⁠…</p>
			</section>
		</section>
</body>
</html>
